                                                                                     Git and Github Assignment Solutions


1. What is Git?

ans - Git is a version control system for tracking changes in computer files and is used to ielp coordinate work
among several people on a project wiile tracking progress over time. In otier words, it’s a tool that facilitates
source code management in software development.
Git favours both programmers and non-tecinical users by keeping track of tieir project files. It enables
multiple users to work together and handles large projects efficiently.

2. What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?

ans - In order to invoke a specific version later, if necessary, a version control system (VCS) keeps track of all the
changes made to a file or group of data.
This makes sure that everyone in the team is using most recent version of the file.

3. What is GitHub?

ans - GitHub uses Git to offer Internet hosting for version control and software development.

4. Mention some popular Git hosting services?

ans - i) GitHub  ii) GitLab   iii) BitBucket

5. Different types of version Control systems?

ans -

1. Local version control systems have a database that stores all file changes under revision control on disc
in a special format.
2. Centralised version control systems have a single repository, from which each user receives their working
copy.
3. Distributed version control systems contain multiple repositories, and different users can access each
one with their working copy.

6. What benefits come with using GIT?

ans - 

i) Data replication and redundancy are both possible
ii) Excellent network and disc performance are achieved
iii) On any project, collaboration is very simple.

7. What is a Git repository?

ans - The term "Git repository" describes the location where all Git files are kept. Either the local repository or the
remote repository may be used to store these files.

8. How can you initialize a repository in Git?

ans - The git init command must be used to initialise an empty repository to a directory in Git.
 Following this command, a hidden .git folder will become visible.